# US 5.1.8 - As an Admin, I want to create a new patient profile, so that I can register their personal details and medical history.

## Requirements Engineering

### Customer Specifications and Clarifications
**From the specifications document:**
**From the client's clarifications:**

> **Question:** When an Admin creates a patient profile, should he already register them in the system, as users that can login, or should the registration always be responsibility of the patient?
>
> **Answer:** Registering a patient record is a separate action from the patient self-registering as a user.
 
> **Question:** Does the Admin also input the omitted information (gender, emergency contact and allergies/medical condition)?
Additionally, does the medical history that the admin inputs refer to the patient's medical record, or is it referring to the appointment history?
>
> **Answer:** The admin can not input medical history nor allergies. They can however input gender and emergency contact.


> **Question:** When the administrator starts creating the patient profile, what format(s) of the date of birth will they need to enter? Furthermore, what will be the format of the Medical Record Number generated after recording the data?
>
> **Answer:** [...] medical record numbers are generated by the system following the format YYYYMMnnnnnn where YYYY and MM are the year and month of the registration and nnnnnn is a sequential number.


### Acceptance Criteria
- Admins can input patient details such as first name, last name, date of birth, contact
  information.
- A unique patient ID (Medical Record Number) is generated upon profile creation.
- The system validates that the patient’s email and phone number are unique.
- The profile is stored securely in the system, and access is governed by role-based permissions.

### Found Out Dependencies

* 5.1.6
